#  For Developers

The following is a note for future developers working on the FHS News app for iOS (aka, this app).

# Things to keep in mind when working on the app:
* If you currently are making placebo code / want to change something in your code in the future, please have your comment start with "TODO: ". This way someone can easily search for `//TODO: ` or `/*TODO: ` to easily find stuff to do, and make sure to carefully explain what to change - don't just make a comment over bad code saying `//TODO: This code sucks.`. Explain *why* it's bad, and preferrably explain some ideas of what to do to improve it.
* Please avoid changing the iOS version minimum support (at the time of writing it is iOS 12.2), that is, unless you want to have libswift embedded in the app adding about 100MB to the size. Also advise raising it, as much as you can. A lot of devices were killed off in iOS 12 so dropping support would inherently make those devices *never* able to use the app. Some people cannot just upgrade their device, as that costs money which people may not be interested in spending. This iOS codebase completely supports iOS 11 and above anyway, no need to increase minimum iOS version. Copy pasting this discord message I made about dropping iOS 11-12.1.4 (slightly modified) since it explains why I limited support to 12.2+ despite how you can technically compile this for iOS 11 without any changes made:
```
Considering limiting support to iOS 12.2 and higher
it's not like it would make development any harder, [heck] I could probably port this to iOS 7 if I felt like it lmao
but before iOS 12.2, rather than just having swift in iOS [like you would expect them to be smart enough to know to do], apple embeds the entirety of libswift in your app
it's not that bad as that seems, but it adds about 100MB to the app for versions (iOS [12.1.4 and below]) that I believe people will barely need to have 
I'm in the iOS jailbreak community, as well as dabbled in some legacy devices (plus i was stuck with an iPad 2 on iOS 9 for like sooo long because my parents refused to buy me anything newer because my iPad "still worked" despite barely having any supported apps by then) so I still have the want to keep them supported since I know how it feels to not have an app support your version and not being able to do [anything] about it
But at the same time... I really don't think I want to add 100MB not needed storage
I could of course stick to what I know, write it in Obj-C instead and easily support iOS 7+ (and maybe iOS 6 as well since I already don't use storyboards and prefer to do things entirely from code anyways lol) but I really don't think I should considering how the point of this class was to learn Swift lmao
```
(In addition to the last message - most new iOS app developers nowadays, as much as I hate to admit it, are learing swift. This doesn't mean Objective-C is entirely dead - heck Swift itself has a lot of it built off of Obj-C, and a lot of integral parts of iOS itself are still coded in Obj-C, ex SpringBoard, which you may know better as the Home/Lock screen. Some apps made by Apple they claim to be made in swift aren't actually entirely swift - for example, Shortcuts, despite Apple claiming it was rewritten in SwiftUI during iOS 15 - isn't completely true. While the UI of the app might be, Shortcuts is actually built off of multiple private frameworks that are used in the actual backend of the app made in objc, being WorkflowKit.framework, ActionKit.framework, ContentKit.framework etc - see https://github.com/0xilis/RandomShortcutsRev for some terribly reverse engineered iOS 15 WorkflowKit code). There are also a select few apps that still have large parts of them in Obj-C, ex YouTube's iOS app. But as far as new app developers go - barely any people are now learning Objective-C. There will be a lot less people willing to commit new Objective-C code to a brand new project. Almost everyone recommends Swift nowadays - the language is open source on https://github.com/apple/swift and many people contribute (hell a friend on discord I know has contributed to Swift, https://github.com/apple/swift/pull/58882 ). Swift, while still is primarily used only on Apple devices, is also much more easy to use on other platforms than Obj-C - it was also recently announced that CoreFoundation would be getting a major open source rewrite which will surely help on bringing Swift to other platforms. While I may like the syntax in Objective-C, I am probably one of the only two people that do. Almost everyone loves Swift way more. Anyways, what I'm trying to say is - as much as I hate to admit it as someone who LOVES using Objective-C - Swift is growing, Objective-C isn't. This project is build in Swift+UIKit for this reason.)
* In the event of implementing your own servers for this app, or updating this app for server changes, *DO NOT* handle security client side. Client side security is not real security - anyone can put this app in a dissembler and figure out the network calls made, and replicate them. (And no, don't take this as 'add obfuscation to server calls', any obfuscation can be figured out with enough time, and will often times hurt the app performance). Make sure your network API is secure. Related; **NEVER, EVER IMPLEMENT JAILBREAK DETECTION.** Adding any type of jb detection / sideload detection / hook detection etc literally does not benefit security in the slightest (it's a common myth that it does - do not fall into believing this myth). All you will do is prevent users from using the app and limit the people who can use the app. It can even affect non-jb users since adding detection has a higher chance of false detections. Changes/updates made to iOS in the future can potentially also throw off your detection, which has happened for some apps. Don't implement jailbreak detection.
* `Keep the app open source :3. I personally like MIT license the best <3.`. The app being open source allows people not working in the app to identify flaws in how you do things, and suggest fixes. Document your code so that someone can easily understand it. Be active in PRs/issues, etc.
* Something of note: the weather API we are using requires that the app be non-commercial. If any group decides to start putting ads or taking sponsors or whatever, they will either have to upgrade to one of the more expensive plans or stop using it. (hopefully the app will never get commercialized, but once it is out of our hands the future groups will need to know this)
* Adding onto above point: Don't commercialize this. That's dumb. This app is intended for students at FHS to use to easily find info about news at FHS, clubinfo, etc. Don't put that behind a paywall - a student should not have to pay to see school news, that should be expected to be available for free for everyone to see.
* You'll see that in this document, there is a "Contact" section, for those who have worked on the app / previously worked on the app. Please add your contact to this section, so if someone in the future needs to contact you about a piece of code you wrote (and obv since you wrote the code you would know the most about it), they can. I recommend adding multiple forms of contact, so if you unexpectedly lose one method of contact, people can still contact you. Even after leaving said project / if someone else listed on the Contact section has left work on this app, **do not remove the contact information**, since even though they left, if a piece of their code they left while working they were working on the app confuses you and you need more clarity, the new team can easily contact the former member and ask for questions. With that being said, there are legitimate reasons were you may want to contact a current team member to edit a credit - for example if H has two contacts listed - h@someemail.com and their twitter @TheRealHTwitter (made up info for this example of course, if someone actually has these contacts it does not indicate association with the team), and they lose login info for their email, h@someemail.com, then they can submit a request to a team member currently working on their app to remove h@someemail.com since this form of contact is no longer usable. And, recommended, also add their new email, h2@someemail.com, so they still have the same amount of contacts, and if they ever also lose their @TheRealHTwitter account, they won't be totally out of contact in forms of contact. A member might also change their name, and want to switch to other methods of contact that don't use their old name and instead use their new one, in which case they should submit a request to change contact and **you will agree to update their contact**. If you no longer want to provide support for people working on the app, feel free to suggest a notice to the current team to update your contact with a notice next to it to only contact if emergency. I recommend doing this rather than suggesting your contact to be removed, as in case of EMERGENCY where the new team will absolutely need to contact you, they still can, and when they are contacting you and it isn't a form of emergency they should know to not contact you. Nonetheless, if someone *does* want to suggest their contact and name to be completely removed from this project alltogether, after confirming that the person suggesting is in fact the person who wants to be removed, abide by their request, it is their contact after all - but I really don't recommend anyone fully suggesting their contact to be completely removed for the reason I just mentioned. If someone on the contact list now uses new pronouns that are different than the ones they used while working on this project, and makes a suggestion to update to remove pronouns that do not reflect them and replace them with their correct pronouns, **abide by their request**, even if said individual no longer is currently working on this project. Plus, I mean, listing Contact information also (since this document will be public on the GitHub) gives recognition for their work on this project - wouldn't you want to be credited for your work on this project? :^)
* If you're making a minor change (i.e. fixing a bug, slightly changing a color of a label, etc) then it may be okay to make your addition to the project without alerting higher ranking team members. But, if you're making an absolutely **MAJOR** change, please discuss with other team members first. Not everyone will agree on everything - if say you're in a group of 10 and everyone but 1 person thinks a change should be made, feel free to make that change anyway, but if majority of members disagree maybe it isn't such a good idea.
* Make sure (in the iOS app, at least) to follow Apple's guidelines (`https://developer.apple.com/app-store/guidelines/`) - human interface guidelines and App Store Review guidelines in particular are important.
* While I have recommended to attempt to keep this working on iOS 12.2+, in the future, I am aware that in the future, this app will fall into different develeopers. I have a 'software philosophy' in which an app not only works great on the latest and greatest, but will also supports as many devices / iOS versions as possible, allowing a wide arange of people to use the app. This is especially more important since this is a school news app, which students depend on for news, so if their device drops support for it, 
* Keep this note in future versions of source of the app to inform new developers. Thank you.

# API Interaction

For those working on the server and interested in how the iOS App interacts with it, it interacts basically how you would expect. Pretty much everything will likely be in Splittikin's API docs. Nonetheless, I have decided to document some behaviors here.

The FHS News iOS App sends a GET request to the API. At the time of writing, the server does not use any of these headers, however, for future use: the iOS App sends some headers that provide info about the client that may be helpful.

Headers Sent:
* `FHSNewsClientPlatform` is the platform the client is running on. The FHS News iOS App will always have this be `iOS`.
* `FHSNewsClientVersion` is the version of the client. Ex, if using FHS News iOS App Version 1.0, it's ClientVersion will be `1`.
* `FHSNewsDeviceVersion` is the iOS version of the device that is running the app, using an iPhone running iOS 13.5.1 for example will return `13.5.1`.
* `FHSNews_iOSDeviceID` is the device model for an iOS version running the app. For example, the device model of a standard iPhone 11 is `iPhone12,1`. If you are running a device in simulator ex simulating an iPhone 11, then it will return the device model of the device being simulated (`iPhone12,1`).
* `FHSNews_iOSAmIRunningInSimulator` will be `YES` if the app is running in XCode Simulator, and `NO` if it is not.

# Contact

See Developer Guide Rule 8 (Developer Guide is above) before making changes to the Contact section.

## iOS Team

* 0xilis - Contact me at QuickUpdateShortcutSupport@protonmail.com, DM my twitter @QuickUpdate5, add me on discord (iAmNotSnoolee#1413) and DM me there. My github is https://github.com/0xilis.

## Non-iOS Team

* Jenna Curtis 
* Anderson
* Splittikin
* indigoliad
* Swanson

# API / Server-Side Docs:

* Server-Side Docs: https://splittikin.github.io/FHS-News-Docs/
